# Welcome to the Bongo Bongo Report generation tool
Cities in the US have long been segregated by variables such as race, ethnicity, and income. We wanted to investigate whether these demographic variables had any relationship with people's access to critical infrastructure like schools, banks, hospitals, libraries, supermarkets, and parks. With New York City, Chicago, Boston, and Rhode Island as our targets for analysis, we collected data from the US census to understand the demographic makeup of cities at the block group level. We also used the Google Maps Places API to collect a list of all places of interest (POIs) available within each block group. We used this information to compute a connectivity score for each block group, measuring how well connected it is to POIs.

We used K-Means Clustering, a type of machine learning, to provide a baseline overview of similarities between block groups within a given city or state. We clustered twice, with one clustering based on demographic census data, and the other based on connectivity scores. We then looked at the overlap between the two collections of clusters to validate our machine learning process. If the clusters had high overlap, it would suggest a strong relationship between census data and connectivity data. To see the code that processes this data, click [here](https://github.com/cs1951a-brown-spring-2022/bongo-bongo).

With this tool, you can run a statistical test to analyze the relationship between the demographic makeup of block groups and the density of critical infrastructure within them. We prepared two kinds of hypothesis tests to help analyze the data. A chi-square independence test can tell us whether there is a statistically significant correlation between a demographic variable and the connectivity of block groups to infrastructure by comparing the value of the demographic variable to the connectivity cluster labels. The two-tailed independent t-test does something similar, but at a more granular level - it can help analyze whether there is a statistically significant difference between the connectivity of block groups with differing demographics to a certain type of infrastructure.

# Usage
To use this tool, first clone the repository to your local machine. Then, you can use the create_env bash script to create a new virtual environment. The script will also install all the required packages. Once this is done, activate the virtual environment in the command line and run
```python3 code/repl.py```
(Be sure to use the correct directory separator depending on your operating system)! 

This will start up a command line interface that will give you further instructions. The results of the tool will be saved to the folder report_things/final_report. Please do not edit anything in any of the existing files!
